so a chip of poets and the boy it's just
about 20 years ago June 1994 when Intel
announced that there was a flaw at the
core of their Pentium chip deep in the
code of the SRT algorithm to calculate
intermediate quotients necessary for
iterative floating-point divisions I
don't know what that means but it's what
it says on Wikipedia there was a flaw
and an error that meant that there was a
certain probability that the result of
the calculation would be in error and
the probability was one out of every
three hundred and sixty billion
calculations so Intel said your average
spreadsheet would be flawed once every
twenty seven thousand years they didn't
think it was significant but there was
an outrage in the community the
community the techie said this flaw has
to be addressed they were not going to
stand by quietly as Intel gave them
these chips so there was a revolution
across the world people marched to
demand okay not really exactly like that
but they rose up and they demanded that
Intel fix the flaw and Intel set aside
four hundred and seventy five million
dollars to fund the replacement of
millions of chips to fix the flaw so
billions of dollars in our society was
spent to address a problem which would
come once out of every three hundred and
sixty billion calculations number two a
poet this is Martin niemoller you're
familiar with his poetry around the
height of the Nazi period he started
repeating the verse first they came for
the Communists and I did nothing did not
speak out because I was not a communist
then they came for the socialist then
they came for the trade unionist then
they came for the Jews and then they
came for me but there was no one left to
speak for me now knee Muller is offering
a certain kind of
site this is an insight at the core of
intelligence we could call it clue
fulness it's a certain kind of test can
you recognize an underlying threat and
respond
can you save yourself or save your kind
turns out ants are pretty good at this
cows not so much so can you see the
pattern can you see a pattern and then
recognize and do something about it
number two number three a boy this is my
friend Aaron Swartz he's Tim's friend
it's friends of many of you in this
audience and seven years ago Aaron came
to me with a question it was just before
I was gonna give my first TED talk I was
so proud I was telling him about my talk
laws that show creativity and Aaron
looked at me and was a little impatient
and he said so how are you ever gonna
solve the problems you're talking about
copyright policy Internet policy how are
you gonna ever address those problems so
long as there's this fundamental
corruption in the way our government
works so I was a little put off by this
it wasn't sharing in my celebration and
I said to him you know Aaron it's not my
field not my field he says you mean I
was an academic it's not your field I
said yeah it's an academics not my field
he said what about as a citizen as a
citizen now this is the way aaron was he
didn't tell he asked questions but his
questions spoke as clearly as my four
year-olds hug he was saying to me you've
got to get a clue you've got to get a
clue because there is a flaw at the core
of the operating system of this
democracy and it's not a flaw everyone
out of 360 billion times our democracy
tries to make a decision it is every
time every single important issue we've
got to end the bove initi of this
political society we've got to adopt
turns out the word is the form of
formatic
attitude that's what the internet tells
me the word is the answer
appreciative attitude that gets us to
recognize this flaw save our kind and
save our demos now if you know Aaron
Swartz you know that we lost him
just over a year ago it was about six
weeks before I gave my TED talk and I
was so grateful to Chris that he asked
me to give this TED talk not because I
had the chance to talk to you although
that was great
but because it pulled me out of an
extraordinary depression I couldn't
begin to describe the sadness because I
had to focus I had to focus on what was
I going to say to you it saved me but
after the buzz the excitement the power
that comes from this community I began
to yearn for a less sterile less
academic way to address these issues the
issues that I was talking about we'd
begun to focus on New Hampshire as a
target for this political movement
because the primary in New Hampshire is
so incredibly important there's a group
called the New Hampshire rebellion that
was beginning to talk about how would we
make this issue of this corruption
central in 2016 but it was another soul
that caught my imagination a woman named
Doris haddock aka granny D on January
1st 1999 15 years ago at the age of 88
granny D started a walk she started in
Los Angeles and began to walk to
Washington DC with a single sign on her
chest
that said campaign finance reform 18
months later at the age of 90 she
arrived in Washington with hundreds
following her including many congressmen
who had gotten in a car and driven out
about a mile outside of the city to walk
in with her now I don't have 13 months
to walk across the country I've got
three kids who hate to walk and a wife
who it turns out still hates when I'm
not there
for a mysterious reason so this was not
an option but the question is could we
remix granny D a bit what about a walk
not of 32 hundred miles but of 185 miles
across New Hampshire in January so on
January 11th the anniversary of Aaron's
death we began a walk that ended on
January 24th the day that granny D was
born total 200 people joined us across
this walk as we went for the very top to
the very bottom of New Hampshire talking
about this issue and what was
astonishing to me something I completely
did not expect to find was the passion
and anger that there was among everyone
that we talked to about this issue we
had found it up hold it 96 percent of
Americans believe it important to reduce
the influence of money in politics now
politicians and pundits tell you there's
nothing we can do about this issue
Americans don't care about it but the
reason for that is that 91 percent of
Americans think there's nothing that can
be done about this issue and it's this
gap between 96 and 91 that explains our
politics of resignation I mean after all
at least 96 percent of us wish we could
fly like Superman but because at least
91 percent of us believe we can't we
don't leap off of tall buildings every
time we have that urge that's because we
accept our limits and so too with this
reform but when you give people the
sense of hope you begin to thaw that
absolute sense of impossibility as
Harvey Milk said if you give them hope
you give them a chance a way to think
about how this change is possible hope
and hope is the one thing that we Erin's
friends failed him with because we let
him lose that sense of hope
I loved I left that boy like I love my
son but we failed him and I love my
country my country and I'm not going to
fail that I'm not going to fail that
that sense of hope we're gonna hold and
we're gonna fight for however impossible
this battle looks what's next well we
started with this March with 200 people
and next year there will be a thousand
on different routes that March in this
month of January and meet and conquered
to celebrate this cause and then in 2016
before the primary there will be 10,000
who march across that state meeting and
Concord to celebrate this cause and as
we have marched people around the
country have begun to say can we do the
same thing in our state so we started a
platform called GD walkers that is
granny D walkers and granny D walkers
across the country will be marching for
this reform number one number two on
this March one of the founders of
thunderclap David casino was with us and
he said well what can we do and so they
developed a platform which we are
announcing today that allows us to pull
together voters who are committed to
this idea of reform a guard 'less of
where you are in New Hampshire or
outside of New Hampshire you can sign up
and directly be informed where the
candidates you are are on this issue so
you can decide who to vote for as a
function of which is going to make this
possibility real and then finally number
three the hardest here we're in the age
of the super PAC indeed yesterday Miriam
announced that's Miriam's Webster will
have super PAC as a word it is now an
official word in the dictionary so on
May 1st May 1 a ka May Day we're gonna
try and experiment we're gonna try a
launching of what we could think of as a
super-pac to end all super packs and the
basic way this works is this for the
last year we have been working with
analysts and political experts to
calculate how much would it cost to win
enough votes in the United States
Congress to make fundamental reform
possible what is that number
half a billion a billion what is that
number and then whatever that number is
we are going to kick-start sort of
because you can't use Kickstarter for
political work but anyway kickstart sort
of first a bottom-up campaign where
people will make small dollar
commitments contingent on reaching very
ambitious goals and when those goals
have been reached we will turn to the
large dollar contributors to get them to
contribute to make it possible for us to
run the kind of super PAC necessary to
win this issue to change the way money
influences politics so that on November
8th which I discovered yesterday is the
day that Aaron would have been 30 years
old on November 8th we will celebrate
218 representatives in the House and 60
Senators in the United States Senate who
have committed to this idea of
fundamental reform so last night we
heard about wishes here's my wish May 1
maybe ideals of one boy unite one nation
behind one critical idea that we are one
people we are the people who were
promised a government a government that
was promised to be dependent upon the
people alone the people who as Madison
told us meant not the rich more than the
poor May 1 and then may you may you join
this movement not because you're a
politician not because you're an expert
not because this is your field but
because if you
are you are a citizen Aaron asked me
that now I've asked you thank you very
much
[Applause]
[Music]